And I I would be a word to the wise to
anyone watching this. The worst that can
happen is not that you fail. The worst
that could happen is you don't try.
[music]
It was fun taking a trip down memory
lane and hopefully we pick some good
ones for you.
>> [music]
>> the shot from the X Files, the end of
the the of the uh first episode that I
directed. It was an episode called Jwet.
I'm probably butchering the
pronunciation, but that is French for I
wish. And it's was an episode about a
genie. We had this excellent guest
actress, Paula Sourge. There's a certain
plot point in it. There's a little mark
of the genie on her on her cheek. The
very final shot of the episode is a
pullback revealing uh that she's not a
genie anymore, which was her fondest
wish. She wanted to be human again. And
we pull back from her as she sips a cup
of coffee in this in this uh coffee
shop. It's not like it's the most
exciting shot I ever did, but I have
great fondness uh for it because again,
first episode I ever got to do
professionally as a director. Bill Row,
uh, our cinematographer on on The
X-Files, was so helpful to me. He was
such a he was such a a mch, you know,
helping me out. Uh, he knew I was
nervous. But as as we we we moved at the
end of that first day, and I wanted to
knock out this one shot, this epilogue
scene of of the episode, and he said,
"This is this is it. You're only going
to do it in a one." I got kind of
nervous. He said, you know, because we
can do coverage. you want a couple of
different angles here just in case you
know in the editing room we realize you
you need some extra something to cut to.
It was a rare moment of confidence for
me because I said I think it's going to
work best as a wer and then the crew
who's been working so long we can send
everybody home get them home you know an
hour earlier and he said all right
sounds good to me and it's just this
great shot and all you need is a really
good actor doing a great job acting and
you just you do this nice pullback and
and that was a very fond memory and a
good end to my first day as a
professional director. I think I'd been
bugging Chris Carter. I'm trying to
remember. I've been bugging Chris Carter
for a while. Please, Chris, please,
please, please let me direct. I want to
direct one. Ironically, once I got the
go-ahad, I got very nervous. I was home
over the holidays and I was there with
my my girlfriend, my wife essentially. I
was saying to Holly, they finally said,
"Yes, they're going to let me direct,
but now I'm scared. I'm I'm so scared.
I'm thinking of of backing out of it."
And she said, "Why?" I said, "Because
I'm afraid of a lot of things. I'm
certainly afraid of failure, but I'm
afraid of losing Fox a lot of money
because these episodes cost millions of
dollars each and I'm afraid of of
messing up Chris and and having Fox mad
at him. I'm I'm scared of all these
things. And she said, "What's the worst
could happen? Nobody's going to die,
right?" And I said, "Yeah, you're
right." So, she said she said, "I think
you ought to do it." And she talked me
into not quitting because I was coming
pretty close to backing out of it after
all of that begging I'd done. And I I
would be a word to the wise to anyone
watching this. Don't just the worst that
can happen is not that you fail. The
worst that can happen is you don't try.
This is such a it sounds like such a
goofball cliche and yet cliches most of
them have a lot of truth to at the core
of them.
>> So what was your final wish anyway?
You know, there's so many, but the one I
picked for our discussion today was a
shot in the pilot. You're in black. The
camera pulls back from the barrel of a
gun and reveals Walter White standing
there pointing the gun, looking right
into the lens, pointing the gun right at
us. One of the things I was lucky about
was I had the great John Tol as the
director of photography. Double
Oscar-winning John Tol who had won the
Oscar two years running. I think he was
one one of the few guys ever to have
that happen for Legends of the Fall and
Braveheart. And he was such a great guy.
And when it got time to do that shot, he
says, "It says here in the script you
want to pull out of the barrel of a gun.
You know that's going to be tough,
right?" And I said, "Yeah, I figured,
but that's what I got you for." And he's
like, "All right. Well, I I suggest you
do it with CG." And by the way, he might
have been right, but I said, 'I really
want to do it practically. And he said,
'Why?' I said, ' Because I don't,
bragging rights. He said, 'All right,
damn it. So he and his uh guys, his uh
his his his operator and his uh first AC
and the whole all the guys, all the
brain trusts, great bunch of guys. I
think the lens was called a T-Rex, I
want to say. And it was this crazy
contraption that you know for such a
small to get in so tight on such a small
bit of real estate. Ironically, you need
this enormous thing that I just like
huge. It looked like it weighed 50 lbs.
But this thing had a close focus of like
a couple of millimeters. In other words,
you could put the end of the uh the
element, the front element of the lens
right on top of the thing that you were
shooting. And then we backed away with a
slider. There's no human being that
could hold the gun that steady. So if
you look closely, you never see this uh
from, you know, this down because the
gun was hard mounted to a seaand and
sandbag down with a couple hundred
pounds of sandbags and just held every
which way from Sunday so that it
wouldn't go like this. And then Brian
just when it was time to shoot it, he
just reached in and put his hand around
it. And then he's looking all menacing
and like he's going to shoot you in the
face. and and we did it a bunch of times
uh to get it just right because the
camera system has to rack the focus very
quickly and we shot on film. It's the
last time I ever got to shoot on film
Breaking Bad, which makes me happy and
makes me sad. Makes me sad that we're
not shooting film anymore.
>> We got to clean this up.
>> [music]
>> I want to talk about Arthur Albert, the
DP we started with on on Better Call
Saul. I want to talk about a shot from
the first episode which I was the pilot
which I was lucky enough to get to
direct. Beautiful lighting, beautiful
camera work by Arthur and his team. The
character of Jimmy McIll played
amazingly by Bob Odenkirk. He's had a
really bad meeting and this fancy Dan
Law office and he's coming back down to
the subterranean parking deck and he
kicks the hell out of a trash can. We're
in the parking debt. You're looking at
him through these glass doors. And he
kicks the living hell out of this thing.
And we're pulling back constantly. This
beautiful camera move as we're pulling
back, pulling back, pulling back. And
he's kicking, kicking, kicking. And we
really wore him out because we did a
bunch of takes. And poor Bob's having to
kick the out of this can over and
over again at high speed until he's
panting. This was before he did all his
uh uh training for the movie Nobody, so
I don't think he was in quite as good a
shape back then. And then we're pulling
back, pulling back, pulling back and
revealing this this beautiful blonde
woman in very film noir like with a
shadow cut across her where you're not
really seeing her face and she doesn't
react at all. She doesn't not curious.
She knows him very well. And this shot
says all of this without any words.
There's no dialogue at all. You know,
there's something going on between these
two characters that you did not pick up
on in the previous scene. And I was
very, very proud of that shot. And
Arthur uh did a beautiful lighting job
and and the the guys did a beautiful uh
pullback. Very very elegant, very
graceful.
>> Couldn't you just
>> No, I can't.
>> I never remember scene numbers. They
they just, you know, go in one ear and
out the other. But I'm always going to
remember the number 46 because this is
the scene, the wer in the pilot episode
of Plurbus where Ray Seahhorn is
escaping from this scary event and Rey
is looking into this uh LED array of
giant screens that are showing the image
of what is in front of her. You're
thinking, you know, why do you need a
giant jumbotron in front of you showing
in fact a live feed of what is actually
in front of you? The reason is because
this shot spans over six or seven or
eight city blocks, rounds a corner, goes
under all kinds of different lighting,
and the camera shadow of of this camera
looking right into her face would have
been everpresent. It would have been all
over her face throughout the whole shot,
in and out, moving this way and that.
And Marshall Adams, our DP, created this
rig that they ought to dedicate an
entire issue of American cinematographer
to this thing. Marshall had to figure
out how to get even consistent lighting
on her while the camera moves. The shot
lasts several minutes long and they
travel probably a mile or so. Really
impressive this rig Marshall created.
The acting that Ray Seahhorn did as
always is just wonderful. Just a
perfectly executed shot. The extras all
did a fantastic job. We did seven takes
of that in in one shooting day. finally
uh used take number seven. But it took
an entire day plus an entire workday of
dress rehearsal to get that shot right.
The movie Dirty Rotten Scoundrels. I
love that movie. I love Steve Martin. I
love Michael Kaine. And Frank eyes
directed it. This one always stuck with
me. It was a shot that's not in the
movie. It is the teaser trailer of Dirty
Rotten Scoundrels. It is Steve Martin
and Michael Kaine walking along uh the
waterfront in uh beautiful uh place in
Europe. A guy is talking in voice over
about you know surely you'll leave the
theater feeling that you've learned
something about good decent people
>> and and you're following in this water.
you're you're in front of them pulling
along and then at some point you get
behind them and there's an old woman
feeding the ducks or something and Steve
Martin pushes her into the water and I
the reason I picked this one I it's a
great it's a fun shot. It's a great shot
but I in 1988 when I was 21 I see this
in the theaters as a trailer and I'm I'm
like oh man I can't wait to see this
movie. I can't wait to see that scene.
And then I see the movie and I do love
the movie. It is a favorite. Frank Oz
did a great job. All the guys in it,
great, great movie. But I'm like, where
the hell is that shot? God damn it. I
want to see that. What? Ah, false
advertising. Ah, I want to talk to the
manager. In hindsight, being uh
30s, many years older. They didn't say
it was in the movie, but I was so I was
so mad for years. Although I did, it did
not dampen my enthusiasm for the movie.
It's a funnel.